Let's spend a little bit of time talking about how you can
get the most out of your CI/CD implementation.
We'll start with fail-fast.
The phrase fail fast has been picking up steam in the past few years.
I hear it more and more in business circles.
It's no longer acceptable to hide or be ashamed of failure.
In fact, it's much more popular to hold up
your failures as trophies along the way to success.
The first time I heard the phrase fail fast,
I was working as a developer in my first Agile team.
It seems strange and refreshing to be encouraged to fail quickly so that I could learn.
In a way, failures had a way of turning into celebrations.
It's not just Cloud developers and start-up CEOs that can benefit from failing fast.
Your code can too.
You probably realize already that the cost of software defects increases
exponentially with every minute that they're allowed to exist.
The faster we can bring your code failures to light,
the faster you can fix them.
A failure anywhere in your CI/CD pipeline is actually a success.
But the earlier the build breaks, the better.
Fail-fast saves your company money.
Peter Drucker is credited with saying,
''If you can't measure it,
you can't improve it."
Let's remove those negatives.
If you can measure it,
you can improve it.
Most teams would agree that improving code quality is a good thing.
Therefore, if we want to improve code quality, let's measure it.
We certainly can measure
certain aspects of software quality with today's excellent tools.
Now, watch out.
You'll find some controversy here.
It's true that top grades from unit test coverage and
static code analysis tools will not necessarily mean high-quality.
But I believe it is appropriate to say that low grades from unit test coverage and
static code analysis do equal potentially low quality.
Either way, we should be measuring our code quality so that we can see
the positive effects of
our improvement work or the negative effects of our technical debt.
The next practice is maintaining one road to production,
and that road is CI/CD, of course.
Production is probably one of the most important concepts in software development,
since every commit is focused on reaching production at some point.
It makes sense that the process to deploy new code to
production should be one that is free of careless mistakes,
consistently successful, and backed up by a reliable rollback plan when needed.
This is a pretty tall order for a team of mere human Cloud developers,
but this is not some unattainable Holy Grail.
CI/CD, once configured and scripted properly,
can handle flawless production deployments like this thousands of times a day.
However, if your team allows any other person or process to meddle with production,
once CI/CD is handling deployments,
the system will eventually fall to conflicts.
For automated production deployments to work consistently,
your CI/CD Server needs to be the only road to production.
Some parts of the software development lifecycle don't make sense to automate,
like feature grooming, planning meetings,
writing code or some forms of exploratory testing.
On the other hand, tasks like running unit tests, compiling,
and linking are important to the health of
a software product and perfect candidates for automation.
How about tasks that not all team members like to run?
For example, running static analysis and security checks.
Those are popular items to skip when you're in a hurry.
How about our deployment checklist?
Miss a step or miscopy an environment variable,
and poof, there goes production.
The point here is,
if it can be automated, automate it.
Now, it's definitely not a good practice to use web UI tools
to manage configuration where it's hidden away from the team,
far from the code that it affects.
CI/CD configuration, just like your infrastructure configuration should in code.
The only exception to this might be your secrets,
like connection strings, SSH keys or API keys.
But once in code,
your CI/CD configuration and infrastructure configuration
should be stored in the same repository as your application code.
This way, your configuration code will be versioned just like the rest of your code,
and it will be accessible to your entire team.
Configuration in code will never be lost or deleted.
Every change to your configuration will leave
breadcrumbs to help you troubleshoot issues more quickly.